Showcase my work: Github is a great way for me to showcase my work to the world, and to allow others to contribute to my work as well. The world, especially in tech, is moving towards emphasizing people’s skills and their abilities over academic credentials when it comes to recruiting, so it’s a great way for me to showcase my real-world coding experience.
Make open-source contributions: There are a lot of cool and impactful open-source contributions on Github. I aspire to contribute to open-source projects in areas of my interest, which are currently machine learning and statistics. This is not only a great way for me to hone my skills, but is also a way for me to push my field of interest forward. For example, I want to contribute to Python packages such as scikit-learn (for Machine Learning) and statsmodels (for Statistics).
Collaborate with project partners: Github is great for collaborating with others on my projects. For eg, if a bunch of friends and I are working on a side project, I’d want to use Github to collaborate with them. It’s very easy to synchronize progress using Github when working with a team.
Access interesting but less well-known open-source contributions: There are a lot of nascent open-source contributions that have proven to be immensely useful in my research and side projects. Examples are: a sentence2vec implementation, and a tool to create interactive t-SNE visualizations
Create impactful open-source projects: I strongly aspire to create high impact open-source projects in my areas of interest. For example, it is my ambition to create an equivalent (and hopefully, even better version) of ggplot (a wonderful visualization package for R) in Python, which would be extremely useful for data scientists who work primarily in Python. (Note: If you are inspired to work on such a project as well, please do let me know)